So we're just back from our exercise.
And the exercise was to create
an object using bracket and
dot notation that represents
the characters and
whatever related data you
may find in a game of Clue.
So what's the first thing I need to do?
Who wants to go first,
how about someone in the middle?
Anyone wanna volunteer themselves?
The very first thing is
always the easiest one.
Okay, what's the very first thing?
>> You have to make an empty object.
>> Yep.
But what's the first
thing you need to type?
>> Var.
>> Okay, and
we initialize that as a object
literal, put a semicolon in there.
All right, what's the very
next thing that we should do?
>> Define a property.
So do game.murderer="??"
>> I like it, the mystery.
What's the next thing?
Flannel shirt.
>> Another property for weapons.
>> Weapons,
how do we do that without that notation?
Like this?
>> You could do it with a string.
>> Yeah.
Okay.
>> I made an array of-
>> Awesome.
>> Of gun and-
>> Stuff like that?
>> Tank.
>> All right, lazer beams.
Oops, that's not how you spell laser.
Lasers, angry cats.
All right.
Should I put Monster energy drink in here?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Awesome, so this is cool.
Why would we choose an array
versus an object in this case?
We haven't talked too much about when
we would choose one or the other.
I'm assuming that you guys have
all used objects and arrays and
have had to make that decision over
which data structure you're gonna use.
>> Is it just easier to store a lot
more data inside of an array?
>> The size doesn't really matter.
It's more about the structure of
the data here since this is a collection
of things that are the same
essentially and they don't have.
Yeah, basically it's because it's
a collection of things that are same,
they're all weapons so
it's just a list of weapons.
Versus an object is more like
a document you can think of it,
you can make bigger things with it and
have more properties.
But you can also make
an array of objects and
things like that, so you can combine them.
So if I was gonna make an array of
objects here, How might I do that?
Let me just break this
out into lines here,
Just so we have space.
So an object has a key and a value, right?
So what could be the key here?
>> Weapon one, weapon two.
>> Yeah, well the thing is we
have indexes and so we can line
up anything that has a number like
that we'll just refer to as the index.
So weapon one or
zero would be lasers, etc.
Two would be dish soap, very deadly.
So what would be a property name?
You can call a property name also a key,
just so you know it's the same thing.
Property name.
All right, how about,
who is next in the list?
How about a friend in the way back?
>> Well you have to have
say maybe lasers and
then the location that the lasers are at.
So you would do the lasers, colon,
and then the string of
like found in the lab.
>> Hm, okay, that's interesting.
You could do that, that's valid.
But I would recommend having
a property name that is
consistent among your objects.
So for example, I would say to do
maybe type: 'Lasers' and
then location: 'Lab'.
Do you guys see the difference there?
Because now each of these data structures
has a type, it has a location, and
we can organize our data around that,
versus having to know what the property
name is for a specific thing every time.
So if the property name was lasers and
here it was angry cats,
we may have to remember that.
Whereas we could just say weapon set
type and it returns lasers, awesome,
we don't have to remember the specific
string that's stored there.
And this is a pattern.
Etc., cool.
What else might we have in our game?
You guys know the rest of this,
right, would be the same pattern.
>> Maybe character's name?
>> Character's name?
>> Of the game.
>> The name of the game?
Name the game.
>> No, like Mr. White [CROSSTALK]
>> The characters.
How would I do that?
>> The way I did I did,
I guess it would be game.name and
then I pass an array with different
nicknames saved as a string.
>> Cool.
So someone know a name
of a character of Clue?
>> Miss Scarlet.
>> 'Miss Scarlet'.
All right and brown sweater,
I'm sorry, I don't know your names.
>> Mrs. Peacock.
>> Well actually my question is
a little bit different, sorry.
>> [LAUGH]
>> How will we add Miss Scarlet to that
array, Without just putting
it in there an array literal?
So this is array literal where
we just pop it in there, but
we wanna add it later or
add it dynamically.
>> You'd do a bracket notation,
or just [CROSSTALK]
>> Sure, tell me exactly what to type.
Pretend like I'm, what's that,
Dragon dictation software?
>> I don't know.
But, game.name[0].
>> Oops.
>> Equals.
>> Nice.
Perfect.
>> Semicolon if you want it.
>> I do want it.
Is anyone here anti-semicolon?
Okay, just wondering if we
could still be friends.
Just kidding,
I don't engage in those silly things.
But I do use semicolons.
Awesome.
>> Or push.
>> Yeah, you can use push.
What does push do?
>> In the green sweatshirt
>> Puts it at the front of the array.
>> Puts it at the back of the array.
But, yeah.
So then an array would
look something like this,
Miss Scarlet and then Mr.
Green, or does it?
Can someone tell me
what's wrong with this?
How about black sweatshirt.
>> Me?
Mm-hm.
>> What's wrong with the array?
>> Mm-hm.
Or what's wrong, so we just added,
we used the push method.
>> Mm-hm.
>> And I was saying we want
it to look like this, and
now I'm hinting that maybe
there's something wrong.
>> You already have Mr.
Green there [CROSSTALK]
>> Well, this is not real.
This is what we want, and
I'm hinting that maybe this line is wrong.
How did we add Miss Scarlet before?
>> Used a bracket.
>> Mm-hm, but what's the difference
between line 14 and 15?
>> I blank out when I'm put on the spot.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah, it's okay.
>> You have the half
circles there [CROSSTALK]
>> Yeah, so this is a method.
Absolutely, but what about this part?
>> The name property.
>> Yeah, so we're pushing it to
the game which is an object.
So we can't push things to an object,
we can only push things to an array.
So what we need to get to that point
was we just need to reference the next
nested property.
Cool, so now we're gonna move on unless we
have any questions to nested properties.
What's up?
>> Just a little circle back from
the previous before the break.
If we were to assign game as a array, so
then it would still work
as an array of objects?
>> So you're saying if we just did this?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah,
everything would work exactly the same.